so
yo
hey
oh i don't think we ever let it go along
with this
hey
[Music]
what's up good morning good afternoon no
matter where you're coming from hope you
all are doing well what's going on
everybody hey
welcome back
hope you all had a
wonderful weekend
uh i the yaws the yells in the beginning
are just to check the closed captioning
that's what it's all about so you hear
the yellows you know the closed
captioning is working uh looks like
we're doing good today
what's going on everybody hope you all
had a great weekend
glad you decided to give us some time on
tuesday to get into some more
css i'm so happy to have you
let's do this thing so
uh if you're new around these parts
welcome we are doing a free 30-week
software engineering boot camp
right
i don't know what that sound was what's
that sound for
thank you for the gift it's up
uh we are doing a free 30 week software
engineering bootcamp we are on class
five we're just getting into some more
depth css so if you're new to coding
you're new to html you're new to css we
got a great stream for you we're going
to get into a lot of other fun stuff
tonight we're going to touch on layout
for the very very first time and we're
just going to start building bigger and
better
sites
uh i think we bring down glitch every
time i think we have to like actually go
talk to them about this
um
so if you can't use glitch code pen
works uh if you can't use codepen you
can use a replit so replit codepen
glitch anywhere you can just put your
html so that we have it
you're good don't worry about it being
specifically uh glitch
the only thing i don't want you to use
is like getting github for right now
yeah just give me something that's like
an actual link to the html glitch
codepen
uh replit any of those are good for
right now
uh just we'll get the git and github
down the line but yeah any of those
three for right now are totally fine uh
don't worry about if it broke on you
right now you can do it until the end of
class don't worry when you take a break
feel free to use it occ through the
replica in chat for those that need that
link but um
yeah don't don't don't sweat it too much
all right as always as we let folks get
in here
i like to start off with some questions
and so the the main question of the day
was
would you rather have a one minute
conversation
with your past self
or your future self
so go ahead and put past or future past
the future in chat for me please
i really do like these questions and i
said i said this before but i feel like
i get to know y'all a little bit better
over time i start to recognize the names
and uh these answers are the fun ones
that enable that to happen so past
versus future
i i i need to i need to
go shake leon a couple years ago
real hard it's not even me talking it's
just me violently shaking myself
future leon just appears and i'm just
like
doing this for a minute and then i just
disappear again
yeah i'm
it's so balanced though
i think a lot of people were saying past
but then we got like a big shipment of
future and so
it's interesting
i think it makes sense a lot of folks
are like wanting to talk to their future
stuff like hey did this coding thing
like did it happen did it work out that
makes sense we're all here to learn how
to code it'd be nice to know that like
all the hard work you're putting in like
yeah in like 10 years you're like yeah
that was that was [__] worth it right
i i can see that being
while you're in a boot camp experience
future could be really helpful at this
like particular point in time would make
the trough of sorrow maybe just a little
bit sweeter a little bit easier
but uh yeah i need to go back and talk
to past leon we got some we got some
stuff to clean up
all right folks
as always like to give folks a little
bit of time to get in here so i i like
to answer a few questions
i'd like to answer a few questions while
we get started
i don't give stock or nft advice on
stream
uh mainly for the sole reason i don't
want you to come back in like a week and
be like leon my life savings is gone so
yeah i know that you'll never hear about
that from me
maybe some fun projects that i like but
uh
you know
seven minute you're fine
what do you think of data science as a
career i think it'd be a cool career i
think it's slightly harder to get into
than full stack web development and
that's why this is a full stack web
development boot camp and not a day
science i think there's slightly more
jobs right now for well not slightly
there's more jobs for full stack web
development and a lot of folks that i
know that go into
data science they typically have a
little bit more advanced like schooling
not that you need it to necessarily go
into data science it's just that it
tends to help if you have a degree and
stuff like that and so i like full stack
web development because you very much
don't need a degree to get into it
how much time will we spend on recursive
functions i think we'll have like a
class where it comes up
cyber security now i just tell people to
stay away from cyber security unless
it's like your passion uh cyber security
is just so scammy right now
it's just it's just it's just what web
development was five years ten years ago
where everyone's trying to sell you a
shovel it's just really hard for new
folks to get started um
i i think it's just it's just scary not
that it's not this that it's not not
that it's not a great career now it's
not something that you should do if
you're interested in it just be careful
that's all i say when folks want to do
cyber security just be careful don't
ever let me or anybody else tell you not
to do it right but just be extra careful
a lot of people selling shovels right
now
can you kick flip
no
i have a skateboard right now and i
haven't skated in a very long time and
i i had muscles that i didn't know
were muscles that were hurting after i
was just like skating around in a
parking lot and this is after skating
for like years probably 10 plus years of
my life
and
i was just skating around the parking
lot and i'm like damn i'm old
there's there's i'm just feeling things
i haven't felt in a long long time
whiz or prevalent off whiz all day what
are you talking about
yeah it wasn't even like my knees it was
just it was just like other stuff
yeah
bootstrapper tailwind i've been playing
around with talonwin recently i'm a fan
uh just so much of my stuff is
bootstrapped though i've just used it
for so long but yeah i've been i've been
playing around with tailwind i think
it's fun
is it okay to use divs sometimes of
course of course it's okay to use dips
sometimes
did i get any shinies today no i did not
get any shiny pokemon today
i've never played star citizen i've
watched it
you know
all right folks maybe one or two more
questions and then we'll get started i
always like to just give the folks a few
few minutes to get in here
uh
[Laughter]
do i have a vr headset i do not i every
once in a while i don't know if i should
actually say this with this many people
here
i'll say it
nah maybe i'll say it they can't get me
maybe they can i don't know
but best buy has a loner program i don't
know if you ever heard about this best
buy learner program folks
so the best buy lunar program is that
best buy if you are a best buy rewards
member
they give you 30 days to return stuff
and if you buy enough they actually give
you 45 days to return stuff
and uh they often don't pay restocking
fees you don't pay for stocking fees on
most of this stuff
so if you want a vr headset i mean you
can like go get a vr headset use it for
43 days and then just uh
return it
that's the best buy learner program
so i've done that once
i just i think vr was fun i just i just
don't think i would use it
regularly yet
um but i can see i can see in the near
future you know
they actually have a restocking view on
cameras now specifically because of this
because so many not me i would never do
this
so many people used to go to best buy
get a really nice camera when they went
on vacation
and then as soon as they came back from
vacation returned the camera
and uh yes now there's a restocking fee
on cameras don't ask me how i know it
because i totally didn't do it but
alrighty folks let's get into it let's
talk about what we're going to learn
today or work on today
we're going to be covering our css
fundamentals again so if last class the
css didn't fully click that's okay lots
of review to have we had tonight we're
gonna be covering specificity again
making sure that we understand kind of
the point values behind using tags
classes ids and others we're going to
look at our relationship selectors again
we're going to see those really funky
kind of sibling parent child direct
parent child and get some some fun
practicing with those we're probably
going to go a little overboard with the
selectors today uh just because i i i
really like a game that we're gonna play
with the selectors then we're gonna talk
about the box model so many of you had
questions about the box model it even
came up uh on sunday during office hours
so we're gonna spend a lot of time
talking about the box model
everything in web development's a box
folks every single thing web
development's a box
then we're going to look at some simple
layouts
we're going to create a simple layout
together live and then
your homework will be able to create
three
more so lots of good review to get into
folks lots of
uh new things to cover and so we're
gonna jump right into it and
let's start off
with checking in
if you haven't checked in all right if
you haven't checked in go ahead and do
exclamation point check in you can
always grab the check in uh tweet on
discord in the following materials
channel or the live channel
thank you for all the gifted subs i'm
going to turn that down for right now
there we go um
so you can always check in if you would
like
i appreciate it helps grow our community
helps folks find us they don't spend a
lot of money on a boot camp
so yeah go ahead and check in
go ahead and give it a like a retweet
please
and let's talk about submitting that
homework seems like we brought down
glitch again uh so rip uh if you want to
use something other than glitch like a
code pen or a replit you can
but i want the khan academy
and i want the tech crunch html so there
should be no css it's just the html
i would like them in separate links
please and then there is the form uh to
submit it and of course that form is on
discord as well so
go ahead and submit the form
and you will have submitted your
homework
for folks that want to be in
touring or hopper the homework is always
due before class starts and then for
everybody else 24 hours later
cool
we've been working hard uh my team
myself on getting our study communities
together
on thursday we'll be sharing
more about the study communities uh
we'll be sharing the actual survey for
you to jump into them and we'll be
sharing more about kind of the the other
houses as well so that's coming on
thursday uh we just gotta tweak a few
more things and get you all ready and
then we'll start getting you into these
study communities i'm really excited for
these i really think it's going to give
you a smaller group to connect with
there are so many things that
tie
different pockets of our community
together and i i'm really excited for
you all to have smaller homes to to work
together uh to commiserate together and
to to be able to uh get the help and
support that you need and so we have
lots of different things lots of
different things that people might have
an affinity for or something that they
deal with or something that they just
want to organize around and so yeah
we're gonna have these lovely study
communities coming uh on thursday we'll
be sharing out that survey and then
we'll start adding everyone to them so
gonna be a lot of fun uh it's gonna be a
lot of work for the the mod team over
the next couple of days so if you see a
mod give them give them a thank you
every once in a while i i think i think
you don't realize how much uh work the
mods are putting in to like keep the
discord an amazing space uh to keep
twitch in amazing space and so as always
uh
super huge thank you to the mod
community uh it's what keeps all this
going cool
alumni twitter space uh so many of you
all love twitter spaces so we'll be
doing our first one on
friday that's right folks friday this
friday january 28th at 6 00 p.m we'll be
having the twitter space we have a
couple of alumni that are signed up that
are just going to come share their story
share about their experience at
100 devs share their experience about
getting a job and then answer your
questions and so
we have it we have it slated for an hour
uh it might come a little bit later and
it will be recorded so if you can't make
it uh we'll we'll have it recorded as
well yeah
i don't think it'll be uploaded to to
youtube or anything like that because a
lot of times we share a lot of stuff
that maybe should stay in the twitter
space
yeah
yeah so maybe maybe maybe not gonna get
uploaded anywhere else but the recording
will be on twitter yeah so a lot of you
like the twitter spaces so we're gonna
try this format we've used a different
platform in the past so this will be our
first time trying it uh and we're gonna
bring alumni back regularly right and so
this won't be a one and done thing this
is something that we're gonna try and
bring every week every every couple
weeks or so just to get folks that have
gone through the program uh back
talking to you all
telling you about their struggles the
things that went well the things that
went right things that went wrong the
things they wish they could redo right
and so we're going to start that on
friday
and so shout out to all the alumni that
are always here on
uh discord et cetera uh and just
a shout out to like you like i know we
showed out the alumni shout out to mods
but like shout out to all y'all too like
the the the the the thing that makes me
the happiest in the world right now
is if i go to let's see
i'm gonna do this live right in front of
myself now
i am going just into the homework help
channel on our discord
and every single question
has answers
9 6 14 12 50 plus 24 3 5
1 8 2
27 3 12 2 32 3
50 plus 6 4
6 nine like i'm just i'm just reading
right just reading uh from that
community
and so that that's y'all right and so we
we keep talking about this idea that we
switched to the threads
and the threads have been amazing
because y'all show up time and time
again
to help each other to answer each
other's questions and i've honestly
never seen anything like it
find me another forum where every single
question's getting answers right find me
a form where every single question is
getting answers where they're getting 50
plus answers on a singular question it
doesn't exist except for right here this
is hands down the best community to
learn how to code live online i don't
care anywhere uh it's just
i've never seen anything like it and
i've been in this game for a long time
been in this game for a long long time
so thank you to all y'all too
all right
channel points
uh right now i'm playing with the
i feel i feel bad because some folks i i
don't always see the channel points
because there's so much going on
and so i fixed a lot of things on my end
uh one i made sure that all the things
are now more expensive
they are more expensive for right now uh
just right now just while we're playing
with it and i'm trying to get it dialed
in
the things are more expensive
and some of them are rate limited so
like some of them can only be um
used once a class
right
eventually once we figure it out dialed
in the prices will come down right the
prices will come down
but some things for right now yeah
inflation
uh
for right now the prices are high
and
some things are limited to maybe like
one or two a stream lecture juice with
the bruh
all right and so the idea here is that
they they will they will be a little bit
more sparse which i think will be good
that way i can see them come through on
my screen and i have it set up now to
see the requests that come in a little
bit easier and so i'll be able to pay
attention to a little bit more i'll be
able to do the things that show up on it
um but
that's we're working on it i'm trying to
get it dialed in a little bit more it's
just there's a lot going on and uh yeah
now it's a little bit more expensive and
some of them are limited i should be
able to see them all and when you all
make me hydrate i can hydrate things
like that
i will note that the only fans price did
not change
all right only fans has been the same
price it'll stay the same price
better lady thank you for the bits
alrighty
typing
uh we had a lot of questions over
can you all hear that we go get
did you all hear that we go get
we don't get got we go get we're able to
hear it
yeah okay cool cool i'm turning off
monitoring of my system sounds and so i
just want to make sure that y'all could
hear too cool all right
some of the things oh also some of the
things right now channel points have
been turned off there are some bigger
things that have been turned off just
while we figure out a process for them
with so many folks um we just got to
figure out a better process for it and
so the bigger ones that we're taking off
will be coming back just finding a
process for a lot of them
yeah
cool
typing
a lot of folks have been reaching out
about feeling bad about their typing or
having lots of questions about their
typing
don't here's the thing a lot of folks
start off using two fingers to type
that's okay
the idea is that while you're going
throughout this process
you want to get better at your typing
you want to invest time over the next 30
weeks getting better at your typing
bringing up your words per minute right
but also making sure you're using all of
your fingers now i'm not here to tell
you that you have to use all your
fingers you do you the passionate appeal
that i want to make to you and and
different was and different ghosts was
on um
in the asking on channel helping folks
with this too is the thing that i want
you to
to remember is that
you're doing a lot of stuff with your
fingers that you might never have done
before
even if you've been playing video games
since you were little and you're an mmo
champion there's just certain like
keys that we'll be hitting every single
day over and over and over again the
flexion on your pinky every day will be
just over and over and over again and so
the the touch typing using all your
fingers it's really not
necessarily about the speed it's about
reducing the stretch
reducing the strain on your fingers
right
i say this every single cohort
at resilient coders
i tell them three of you are going to
the hospital
every single cohort i tell them in every
single cohort it it happens at least one
to three folks right go to the hospital
every single cohort i run of my like rc
cohorts and that those are smaller
cohorts
so there's thousands of us here i can
only imagine how many of you
will eventually injure yourself if you
don't take your typing seriously
if you don't take your posture seriously
if you don't take your
breaks
seriously
it is a lot of hard work putting stress
on a lot of these bones and fingers and
ligaments that you might not have ever
done and so like i said typing is not
necessarily about speed it's about being
able to do this for the rest of your
career so
if you're able
make sure you can transition to maybe
using all your fingers
uh sitting in a good way
uh maybe
being a little bit more conscious about
kind of how you are working throughout
the day and making sure you're doing
things ergonomically make sure you're
taking your breaks at the top of every
hour make sure you're getting your
stretches in
all these wonderful things
we shared the dr levi the fitness
doctors video i'll put that in discord
again after class because i think it's
just a really good video to make sure
that you're taking care of your hands
and getting the good stretches in
take care of yourself in other ways too
maybe you use flux to lower the um to
change the temperature of your screens
right just take a little bit time in
your setup and thinking through how you
can do this healthily for the longest
amount of time
flux is a program that's free uh that
helps change the
um
temperature of your screen so that it's
not burning your eyeballs all the time
all the time
basically a night mode for all the time
or or it even has like um as the day
gets long later it like it it changes
with the day
leon are special glasses helpful too
i have blue light blocking my glasses
when i got them from warby parker i've
seen like different like
science on it some people say it works
some people say it doesn't i don't think
i would i think that if you have the
option then yeah sure why not
but i'm not sure like running out and
getting blue light blocking glasses will
do it for you
but it's not if you're if you're having
really strong sensitivity to it um
you're maybe try it but for me i don't
really know
honestly the science is um a little
wishy-washy at my point
but
try it
better than nothing
the lady is stressing me out i'm sorry
this is this is what this is what it
looks like when i this this is remember
i told about like 10 minutes until the
client project is due this is what i
look like 10 minutes until the client
project is due it's just really loud
trap music and me just like gritting my
teeth and just
mashing my keyboard as fast as i can
cool
somebody said what are channel points uh
travel points are points you get just by
watching and tuning into class
and so while you're here you're
accumulating channel points and you can
use those for fun silly or useful things
by clicking the my little face at the
bottom of the chat window
how did i survive without flux this
whole time it really is a game changer
uh just be careful
here's one thing to be careful about
is that when you have flux on
colors will be different
i have i i'm not afraid to bend this i
have shipped
code like i have shipped a design with
all the wrong colors
because i was like looking at them
differently
what flux on
uh so just just be careful
uh it will change the color of your
screen and that might be something you
you got to keep in mind so like if i'm
doing stuff where i'm looking at a
design like we're doing right now and
translating it if i'm looking at the
colors i i gotta you gotta be careful
that you're you're
you're um
you don't have flux still on
uh
lord said uh yeah i'm a designer i've
messed up a lot of projects due to flux
yeah i i i i've been there with you so
just be careful turn it off if you're
doing any like color work or things like
that
also folks who are asking about colors
i use digital color meter
so built into max is this lovely digital
color meter and you can just
hover your mouse over
any color and it'll give you the rgb
value right here
um
and so i use this all the time like if a
designer does not give me colors
i just use digital color meter to grab
that color
if you're not on a mac windows and gnu
linux have similar
applications that you can install
that do the same thing but on mac it's
just digital color meter
there are eyedroppers you can install on
chrome but then the color picker only
works in chrome
so yeah i would definitely make sure you
get a color picker that's on your
desktop
so that you can find colors very easily
all right
i'm gonna keep keep bringing this
reminder up but
the name of the game here folks
is to go deep
not
wide
all right
i saw some folks
last cohort and it happened again in
this cohort
i was asking for html
and they were trying to add javascript
to their khan academy
and uh uh
please don't
we're not there yet please don't do that
um
the person that did it last cohort i
asked him
i asked him what is the semantic meaning
of an aside
and they couldn't tell me
i was like wait a minute
so instead of actually
learning the stuff that we covered in
class multiple times
you just leroy jenkins the crap out of
it and ran ahead to javascript
but you don't know the basics of
html
i don't know
i don't know sounds like you kind of
i did too much
sounds like you went a little too wide
now not deep enough right
and so don't get got
please don't get got
make sure that you are
going deep
not wide
make sure that you are
not putting all that extra stress on
yourself
make sure you're giving yourself time
for things to sink in
please don't
even if you feel like you've put it like
if you feel like you put in a good
amount of work stop for the day
right
don't don't keep doing these super long
marathon days every day it just won't
keep it up
99 of you just won't keep it up maybe
you're that one percent and i all the
power to you but i've seen so many of my
most brilliant students just burn out
right so
go deep
not wide
right
and as things pick up you're gonna add
more and more but don't keep giving
yourself all this extra work it's just
not it's just not worth it and what
you're doing what you're doing
most likely
is not cementing the stuff that really
needs to be cementing right like if
you're not giving your brain that
diffusive time if you're not giving your
brain that rest and the sleep that it
needs all the stuff you put all that
work into actually learning and cranking
the hours for you're just gonna forget
even with the best anki routine it's
just too much
so build up the pace
build up the pace
right build up the pace
make sure that you're reviewing the
stuff that we covered i'm giving you
bangers only right go deep not wide
to usa said the motivation guy last week
said not to sleep and that's why my
caveat next to the video was please
sleep though
like odd it literally says please sleep
though next to the video
uh because that that's the misstep
that's the misstep
please sleep we know what sleep does to
memory consolidation
right
you will not commit any of that stuff to
memory if
you do not sleep
now here's here's where i think the
advice comes in
and
this is actually from garyvee uh say
what you want uh but
had some really i think is an important
thing to keep in mind uh garyvee says
tell me what you do between seven and
two and i'll tell you how successful you
are and i actually don't think the seven
to two matters i don't think like
staying up late matters but i think the
the core of
is what's being said there is are you
maximizing your time
right
not all of us have the privilege
of
seven to two
not all of us have the privilege of
being able to wake up early
but with what time that you have
what are you doing with it but the time
that you do have
are you getting the most out of it
right
don't sacrifice sleep because that just
won't help with memory consolidation but
when you've accounted for sleep you've
accounted for family you've accounted
for everything you need to keep track of
in your life and you have that other
time
what are you doing with it
right and so we all come from different
experiences we all come from different
backgrounds we all have different
privileges when it comes to time it's
not about
raw hours is about what are you doing
with the hours that you do
have
right for some folks
they they don't get the wheels turning
enough to take advantage of the time
that they do have and then it falls off
so with the time that you do have are
you going into that time like an
accident did you make a plan
did you make a plan a couple days ago
did you make a plan for the week you
have a plan for the day
if you don't have a plan for the day the
hours that you do have are going to slip
away
right so we're gonna keep bringing up
these ideas right go deep
don't go wide
get plenty of sleep but don't go into
your days like an accident have a plan
and what you're gonna do
right and then be consistent we know
being consistent is what gets us through
the trough of sorrow
cool
what about us nine to fivers do you mean
like that you're working or that you're
studying nine to five
uh because if you're working nine to
five then that
that that spiel kind of applies do you
have time outside of your nine to five
how much time do you have do you have an
hour do you have a half hour do you have
three hours and what are you doing with
that time you know
working parents are going to have it
harder right like like let's be real
right like if you're a working parent
you got all my respect in the world
right that that that's the the not
having the privilege of time right and
so you're never going to hear me
say
that everyone has that same access to
time it's what are you doing at the time
that you do have are you being having a
good plan for that time and are you
putting in
the the the game plan realistically
right
are you putting in that game plan
realistically
right and then just try and be
consistent
just to shout it from the mountaintops
you're doing anki fine
if you're doing anki you are
leagues better than all the folks not
doing anki
right
if you're if you're if you're opening up
your anki every day you have one let's
say that one more time
get big here
if you have opened your anki every day
you've already run you've already you've
already won
all right
you've already won
you get the golden prize
right
there's there's there's there is no 100
right way to use anki other than to just
use it create cards and review those
cards there's no magic to it i don't
have any secret settings i'm not doing
anything different than you are other
than making like decks and tags
i'm going to show you more of my decks
and tags
hopefully this weekend at office hours i
wanted to clean up a little bit so it
made more sense for folks
because mine are like shorthand
[Music]
and so
you're doing fine if you've been opening
anki every day you've already won you're
doing okay
let this be a a a shot across the bow
for folks that haven't been doing anki
every day
just opening it using it getting your
repetition is is how
it works
right
so just do it
just do it
just do it so you gotta do
it yep
that's it
alrighty
next thing i talk about
your goal
as you're learning any language
especially for the first time
especially
for the first time
right
your goal always should be
to vomit your code
and then clean it up later let me say it
one more time
your goal should be to vomit your code
and then clean it up
later
okay
your job is to get the job done
refactoring is for closers i mean let me
let me break down a little bit here
right
in the beginning
you have no
no
luxury
of committing to
best practice
you have
no luxury
to committing to
quality code you have no luxury of
committing to maintainable code
your only job
is to
vomit all over your keyword all over
your keyboard and get the job done
the job for pretty much every
single assignment
in this cohort
will be
does it look like the photo
or does it do what it's supposed to do
that's how you should judge every single
thing you do in this boot camp
does it look like the photo
and does it do the thing it's supposed
to do because if it does the thing it's
supposed to do you wrote phenomenal code
if it looks like the photo you wrote
phenomenal code full stop that's it
it's all that matters
i don't care
if you use the right tags
if it
is great code i don't care if
someone would look at it and scream
we're here to write the chunkiest of
vomit
and get the job
done
no
hiring partner
is going to look at the html you wrote
in class four to make a hiring decision
just a little bit more time let's go big
here
no hiring partner
is going to look at the css you wrote in
class 5 and go there's no way i can hire
this person
so get that out of your mind no one will
ever see it no one will ever care you're
here to write vomit
i'm going to write vomit with you
because it just doesn't matter get the
job done
so many folks stress
they they they they worry themselves
about making sure they're using
everything in the right way and they use
that stress
to stop them from getting the job done
no one's gonna look at your code they
just won't
especially not right now
no clean code right now
this is day five
now in five five months from now
five months from now you're still you're
still producing vomit in html and css
then then maybe we got a problem
but in the first three months that's
vomit time baby
that that's
that's vomit time first three months on
the job not on the job but there's three
months here uh it's vomit time it just
doesn't matter
right get the job done get it looking
the way it's supposed to look
and then get the job done that's it
cool
now
once you've gotten the job done
right it looks like the photo or it does
the thing that's supposed to do
you've gotten done your reading you've
gotten done your videos
daisy said i'm still vomiting six years
later and getting paid exactly
once you're done the day is done you've
done everything you're supposed to do
for the week and you have more time you
can go back and refactor if you choose
refactoring is for closers refactoring
means you go back you clean up your
vomit you put it in the bag you take it
outside right but in the beginning
vomit
if you get through all the stuff you got
to get through that week go back and
refactor right but we write vomit around
here
cool
all right
here's the really sad thing that's
happening right now
the sad thing that's happening right now
is y'all are nasty
y'all some nasty people
it's true
you know you don't want to know why
you're looking at other people's vomit
and you're going
why is mine not as chunky as theirs how
did they get their vomit so chunky
why were they able to throw up more than
me
how come they can throw up farther than
me why why
why why is there vomit a little bit
farther than a little bit more chunky
how can i
make my vomit as chunky as theirs
right you are admiring other people's
vomit
y'all nasty
why are you looking at other people's
vomit and then feeling bad about your
vomit
it's disgusting
knock it off
just don't do it why why are you like
licking up other people's vomit it just
doesn't make any sense
y'all some nasty individuals so please
when you're writing vomit
don't get jealous at the other person's
vomit
you don't know how long they've been
vomiting for
you have no idea
if
they had a better breakfast than you
they could have had an amazing breakfast
and you did not
so why are you
upset
when they got more chunks it just
doesn't matter don't worry your vomit
will be as chunky as their vomit going
into the future but for now
right for now
it just makes no sense
right it makes them
it makes no sense to get upset about
other people's vomit okay
so
as we progress
some folks can be farther along some
folks will be a little bit behind it all
equals out in the end
don't don't get upset over people other
people's vomit it just doesn't make
sense
you know the sad thing is i really did
like
vomit hard on monday
like really bad
like like really bad
i had to cancel a few meetings because i
it was just it was just it was upsetting
and so all i'm gonna say is when i was
looking at these slides today right as i
was reviewing them before class and as i
was working on them i was just not
feeling the best
i would just not feel the best i really
think it was food poisoning but it
didn't last long enough to be food
poisoning i think
um yeah so
what i what i think it was is uh i
haven't had red meat or pork since i was
like nine
and so
[Music]
i think sometimes when i eat stuff
that's been like cross-contaminated it
just like soup comes right back
um so i think that's what happened
anyway you don't even know about my
vomit you shouldn't care about my vomit
just like you shouldn't care about other
people's vomit i'm glad i made that work
that was a good one
tap myself on the back there that was a
good one all right now
let's talk about code standards
i laughed about this last cohort too i'm
just like don't worry about anything
don't worry about best practice don't
worry about anything here's the best
practice that we should all adhere to
i laughed at the same thing last year
but it's still
[Laughter]
funny all right anyway
so don't worry about anything code wise
here's something you need to worry about
all right
we want to make sure that our html has
all of our content in it we want to make
sure that our css has all of our style
you want to make sure that our
javascript has all of our behavior and
interaction and we don't want to mix any
of these
uh up at all why why do we want to keep
our html our content separate from our
style or style separate from our
behavior why is this golden rule such an
important rule
organization exactly organization nice
cool
where does our css go chat where does
our css go
and i know slow mode is on so you can't
always like follow up right away
dmacc hey i appreciate that note
yeah we want it in a separate file
we want to agree to that separation of
concern so we put our css in a separate
file
there are some exceptions
what is the exception for writing inline
style
what's the exception for writing an
inline style yeah email exactly you're
writing email you might not well you
don't have access to external style
sheets and so any really nice emails
you're looking at are probably done with
html with inline style
there is an exception that we heard
about
uh when it comes to in the head
hey nate thank you for the 5k the subs i
appreciate that
uh
in the head yep if we're working at
amazon and we're working with critical
path css
they they really are concerned about
super super super fast speed because for
every one second their page load speed
increases they lose a million dollars a
day and so they have critical pass css
where it's just enough to load the above
the fold and then everything else goes
in the external style sheet and then we
just normally would have it in a
separate file nice all right folks
pay attention tonight i like it we're in
here
yeah we got our active recall in our
space repetition's on fire
all right
since we're putting our css in a
separate file remember we have to have
that link tag uh in the head of our
document and we're going to tell it
where to go find our css so our html we
got to point to where our css is and
this href tells it where to go find that
style sheet
cool
we talked about how this whole thing
is called a rule a rule is broken down
into a selector and a declaration block
and then declaration blocks are broken
down declarations properties and values
so let's play
our favorite game and
say what part of css is this
so
what is this whole thing called
trap
we use other best practices of course
we'll do things like mvc yeah we'll get
to that way down the line
yeah whole thing is a rule a rule is
broken down into
two things but what is this thing
what's that
try to
get the pre-guessers a little off the
off their uh mark there yeah it's a
property
um
how about
about this
let me unco uncircle the other one
though about that what's that
a declaration nice it's a declaration
remember the whole thing is a
declaration we had the property on the
on the on the left-hand side uh what is
this
yep that's our selector nice our
selector and then how about
this
it's our value nice nice how about
yep so declaration block nice nice
cool
and then how about
how about this
that would be a colon yes that's a colon
[Laughter]
it's not specific to a rule but there
are colons and semicolons and part of
the declaration
cool
hold on everybody
cat's own point tonight i'm feeling it
all right now
we talked about this idea of the cascade
meaning that
tags that come above can be overwritten
by tags that come below
and i don't feel like we had a really
good example of how the cascade comes
into effect but we're gonna get a really
good example later tonight so later
tonight we're gonna have a pretty good
example that'll show
that cascade and effect so we can see
how it could be really useful to you in
the future so i promise that we'll see a
good example of the cascade later today
uh here is an example but it doesn't
really show like a why right it's just
it just it's something that works but
it's not really a why so
if you're struggling with understanding
when the cascade would be helpful we're
gonna see that tonight okay
so here we have a paragraph rule
where we set the color to red and then
the font way to bold and then for some
reason we wrote another paragraph rule
below it
and since both of these rules have the
same level of specificity
the one that is below
can override the one that comes above
right and so in this case the paragraphs
will now all be blue because that's what
was overridden
but they still
will have the font weight of bold
because there's nothing that override
the font weight here so you wind up with
blue bold paragraphs right blue bold
paragraphs because of that cascade and
so we're going to see
some of this cascade come alive today
yeah like i said ghost we're gonna see
that example later
alrighty one more time why would we want
to link our css in a separate file
yep separation of concerns prius
yup organization exactly
beautiful yep so here's separation
concerns keep our keep our code
organized uh to make sure that we're not
mixing our content and our style lovely
alrighty
let's review some simple styles and then
we're going to get our fingers on the
keyboard again okay let's do some simple
styles and we're going to get our
fingers on the keyboard
all right
we talked about color keywords uh last
class where if we want to make something
the color red we can just by using the
color keyword but we can also use
hexadecimal values rgba values hsla
values all just different ways
of getting color
done right i use rgb
or rgba this is the one i feel the most
comfortable with i like using the
digital color meter i pull up the color
really quickly i plug it in when i need
to plug it in and i love that alpha
channel the ability to have like
transparency
a lot of folks
a lot of folks that are like hipsters or
come from a print background they like
that hsla
some folks that are that are just
machines have hexadecimal values like
just memorized especially folks that may
have been designers for a really long
time there are some people that just can
like look at stuff and know the hex
value like almost exactly uh so you
might feel very comfortable with but
when you're just kind of like getting a
project out the gate you're just trying
to get the job done it's fine to use
color keywords don't stress about the
colors when you're just trying to get
the job done when you're writing your
vomit just choose the color keywords you
always come back and specify the exact
color if you want
all right talked about the different
font families uh we
we had the source sans pro which is my
favorite font uh but we see here in this
font family uh we had sour sands pro but
then helvetica and then sans serif uh
why why do we have three here why not
one
yeah they're backups exactly right so
the idea is if for some reason sources
pro doesn't load helvetica will load if
for some reason that doesn't load then
we just get the regular sans serif that
every every browser has and um i
mentioned that loading here i am using
uh the google fonts to load in that font
you could download font files and
then import them or
have them linked in another way but
i find the google fonts be pretty easy
on the very very very very rare instance
that um
google fonts goes down i always have
like a nice backup that still looks good
on my site
but yeah
excuse me
excuse me excuse me
um how reliable is google fonts i've
seen i've seen
google's apis go down
twice um
way back in the day
i believe it was i don't know i want to
put this on google but it was like the
biggest jquery
uh cdn so this is i'm dating myself here
this is like way back in the day i
remember the biggest like jquery cdn
going down
uh and i was teaching
and the other teacher that was teaching
at the same time we had like glass
windows at general assembly and they
like come and they're like
they're like looking at me like this
like they're they're like freaking out
uh because jquery went down
and when jquery went down like all these
websites just like one offline like it
was just not offline but they just all
broke
um because a lot of people didn't use
like really good fallbacks back in the
day a lot of people that just didn't
know to have like a backup source for
your jquery code and so it just it just
broke
um so i'm really dating myself here with
the jquery reference but
that was my funny so so these things can
go down they're not always working right
um
people keep like all caps hydration
that's what channel points are for folks
you use the channel points i get the
hydrate you got you got to keep me got
to keep the liquids coming in i'm not
going to hydrate unless unless the
channel points come in you know come on
now
we're cheap
[Laughter]
occ thank you for the hydration cheers
to you
tonight's liquid is
um
chameleon cold brew
chameleon cold brew yeah
alrighty
same thing for font weight for font
weight uh here we have uh a number 700
so when you go get those fonts from
google fonts you can specify the weight
you can see that i have the 300 400 and
700 here so i can actually set the
weight to one of those three different
weights based on the font that i got as
well
all right
and
as always if there's something that you
don't know how to do at css the quickest
way to doing it or learning it is to use
the mdn you can just google what you
want to do css mdn and it'll pop right
up there for you i i forget so much
stuff when it comes to css so many weird
things that i want to do that i always
just have the mdn open and i just go
right to it uh the mdn has saved my butt
so many times it's the best resource
just to do quick lookups to find what
you need uh so yeah
all right
we are
at the top of the hour uh when we come
back from our break we're gonna get our
hands on the keyboard and be working
through some basic css we're gonna get
just a little bit more review and then
we're gonna get to the new stuff so if
you're new here we like to be healthy we
like to make sure that we take breaks at
the top of the hour we're to be here to
be software engineers for the rest of
our careers uh so let's go ahead if
you're able get up move around please
get up from your keyboard go kiss some
babies go go look out the window so your
eyes can focus on something that's
that's not so close right
all right we bring up the timer here
play some tunes and i'll be back too
i'll see you all
in five
you too youtubers if you're watching on
youtube take your five minute break just
because we're not live doesn't mean
you're not taking your breaks okay
and i'll give you all what you want
e
did leon build the bingo no that was
cross and the diabolical which uh there
well dab is part of our stream team
and so when you do exercise point bingo
you see it says in the creative minds of
the follicle and across
put bob back on i love bob
oh dab's here hey
what's my favorite movie
i actually have a list of all my
favorite movies uh and i i kind of keep
it to a top five
um
i guess i could share the full top five
and they kind of rotate into now
depending on how i'm feeling birdman is
really close to the top
top right now
but there's a i have a full list
princess bard is pretty up there yeah
top five anime i do watch anime but i
don't watch i don't i don't watch anime
like that though you know what i'm
saying like i watch anime but i don't
watch it like i don't like you know back
in the day i did though
like before it was like cool because
when i was like when you were like the
weird kid yeah that was me
too mainstream these days
staying up late on uh
at a friend's house because they had
cartoon network just to catch the bebops
all right folks come on back come on
back
[Laughter]
clark said you're still a weird kid bro
thank you i think that i like that
respect thank you
tsunami exactly
now see here's how here's
here's how like
if you're in your 30s
and you did this one thing it's how i
know we could be friends
so back in my day
gather around
gather around my fire here
back in my day
we used to go into aol chat rooms
uh that were labeled dbc our dbz rp
and in these dbz rp
uh aol chat rooms
uh we would use the roll dice commands
uh to make moves as our favorite dragon
ball z characters and then we would role
play out these epic battles uh in aol
chat rooms
that all came down to these like actual
dice rolls so if you ever did that back
in the day
you were you were my speed we could be
friends
all right
let's get our fingers on the keyboard
here
here and uh let's let's look at some
basic css so we're going to code some
basic css if you need the materials
today
all right you need the materials today
uh they are on our discord exclamation
point discord or leon noel.com discord
we have a follow along materials channel
where all the materials that you need to
download for today are
so in that folder
we have a
few specific folders
one is this basic css 2
which is very similar to what we did on
thursday but it's not the same one basic
css2
and in this there's an html file
and there is a css file
if you look in the html there are some
comments
and these comments
ask you to do different things
one says make the lis blue underline 15
pixels
and have a gray background
some actually do height
some ask you to use fonts and so i'm
going to give you all
four minutes
four minutes on the clock and then we're
gonna go over it it together so four
minutes on the clock i'll bring out some
tunes i won't share anything important
i'm just gonna answer your questions as
you're working on this
uh and then we'll go over it together
formats you can't get all through it in
four minutes don't worry
it's just so that we can go over it
together too
all right so give your best hundred devs
try in these four minutes and we'll go
over it together
this is the basic css2 basic css
yep basic css two
uh let's bump up the five let's bump it
to five minutes five minutes we'll do
five minutes just because i know some
folks
it's just so that you don't get too
too in the weeds that way you know that
in five minutes you come back and do it
together so get as far as you can go in
these five minutes bring up some tunes
for you
about it
materials again are yep the css is empty
exactly
you're working on the basic css2
the html is there but the css is not
you're looking at blank files make sure
you've unzipped your folder
[Laughter]
uh southpaw it is in the follow-on
materials channel
what do you do to reward yourself after
pomodoro
uh i just take a break i used to do like
really like intense rewards
uh but now just the breaks enough for me
my brain
is okay with that sometimes i do animate
door i think that's fun or like
um tv doro
yeah
we are building out the css or the basic
css2 folder yeah
css is blank because you're writing the
css
uh in the html file there it tells you
what to do
please make the lis blue
please make the section of a height and
then you write the css to make this
happen
i'll leave it like this and people can
see what we're working on
yeah no classes no ids
yep the instructions are in the html
yep exactly if you don't know how to do
it look up in the mdn
then we'll go over it together
what's going on ed
do you think having technical knowledge
would help applying for product
management roles in tech yeah can't hurt
right
my best pms have always known how to
code
not that it's a requirement but the ones
i've enjoyed have known how to code
i play d and d now winter is coming yeah
how do i comment out stuff in css you
can just highlight it and then do
command forward slash or control forward
slash
two more minutes of vomit exactly
no just wait until we go over it
together
yeah
can pianos make more than devs um not i
mean sometimes i guess right
but that's what you want to do
and what company
lost right now hey we're gonna go over
it together don't worry
you can't download the files i would try
to find some other way to do it you
don't have to download them to the
computer you can download them to
like a google drive or something like
that too
this is fun hey i'm glad you think so
my colors are so off of flux yeah
all right folks come on back come on
back i know that you might not have gone
all the way to the end that's okay let's
go over and do it together
let's do it together
all right
what i always do
come on back do it together
uh what i always do is
i i just open my entire class folder so
i unzipped
the
class 5 materials and then i just drag
that whole unzip folder to vs code and
the reason why i do that is because i
get this lovely tree view with all of
the projects we're going to work on
today i don't have to worry about like
opening and closing other projects you
just open it
right
cool
because look at this
um please make the allies blue underline
15 pixels and have a gray background
instead of having to like swap back and
forth i'm just going to copy this
and then go to my css
and then put that there
and in fact
i'm probably gonna do that for all of
them
yep let me grab it
boom
and what i'm doing here to make these
comments is i'm just highlighting my
text and then for me it's command
forward slash for you it might be
control forward slash
um it's up to you
uh i don't like split some folks do
and i think it's just kind of showing my
process so i'll do the first three for
now
and then we'll come back to the other
ones cool
beautiful
all right please make the allies blue
underline 50 pixels and have a gray
background
all right so i'm going to target my li
select my lis here and let's go ahead
and make them blue color
blue nice
underline what's the property for
underline
don't worry about feeling slow
all right this is this is class five
this is class five you have plenty of
time to pick up speed you're you gotta
think of yourself as like a
a a big train
a luxurious you're a luxury liner luxury
liners take a little while to get up to
speed
nobody wants to nobody wants to ride the
metro they want to ride the luxury liner
right and sometimes you guys it takes a
while to get up to speed you know
you gotta think of yourself a little bit
more highly
the better trains take a while to get up
to speed all right text decoration
and we'll do underline
cool
and then we're going to do font size
of 15 pixels
cool
and then we're going to have a gray
background so background
gray
cool
how can i open this in the browser how
can i see my css taking effect
what are some things i could do
with uh with css3 we didn't need we
don't need the hyphenated colors anymore
make sure it's saved yep so it is saved
and then from my html file i'm going to
open in browser
cool
there we go we can see that we got the
gray background the underline it's blue
all right looking it's looking real good
right
looking real good right
all right
next one
please make this section have a height
of 300 pixels a light purple background
and a gold border
let's look
this section are there any other
sections no
so we don't have to worry about like
doing any type of selector here that's
anything more than just the section
there are no other sections we course
don't need classes or ids for this we
don't need anything other than hey just
a section so let's go ahead and just
target the section
cool
uh let's give it a height of 300 pixels
300 pixels nice
uh a light purple background uh what did
you all use for a light purple
would you all use for light purple
plum
plum i was gonna grab one of y'all's
rgba values here
factual
factual sunshine i'm putting a lot of
faith in you right here
a lot of faith and uh fractal sunshine
here
let's see
let's see how if they did us dirty or
not
oh like it was a good one
i got you got the little you get the
little to get the little preview here so
i can see that they they didn't lead us
astray
lavender is one i think a lot of people
wouldn't have used all right we've got
the rgb in here
uh and
a gold border that is five pixels thick
goldberg is five pixels thick so let's
go ahead and do border
and then we'll do 5 pixels
solid and then gold
cool
all right let's save this let's make
sure this works looks good too
oh beautiful look at us go
look at us go
it's gonna bother me
no
all right
let's go ahead and do the next one here
please make this h1 30 pixels gold
centered and use source sans pro
stands pro
all right
does the order for border matter try it
out see if it breaks or not
it's an easy one to try out right for a
lot of those like simple ones try see if
it breaks
all right h1 is our selector here uh
let's give it a font size of 30 pixels
cool
let's make it color gold
nice
uh centered how'd y'all do your
centering
what did y'all do to center
next the line i like that one for now
text
align
cool center beautiful and then use
source sans pro fonts we're going to
need the font family
and we'll do source stands pro
source sans pro
let's give it a fall back of sans serif
just in case
and do we have source sans pro yet
do we have source stands pro no
let's go ahead and get our source sans
pro
fonts.google.com
uh
don't want any of the roboto let's do
source
sans
there we go
thank you paul d hunt
and i was going to grab the 400 for now
and i'm going to grab my link
i'm going to throw that in
my head above my css link
cool
and now we should have source sans pro
yep we should have source dance pro now
and everything else should be here as
well let's go ahead and grab the
last two here
there were no other h1 so not to worry
about like a more advanced selector
we need to worry about the footer
and we need to make the text have a line
through it for the h2
so boop
i go ahead and highlight this
there we go
all right
and all right make this footer so we're
going to target the footer
beautiful
uh remember look what i do every single
time hold on i'm going to delete i'm
going to do a little bit slower ready
look right next to my head
look right there
i'm going to oh wait
i'm a little little nice little soccer
headbutt there uh
watch what i do with my footer
ready
order
i get my curly braces
all right
get my curly braces i break them
all right i break them right i want to
kiss it sometimes right you break them
all right
and the idea here is that
i want to to make sure that i never
forget to close my curly braces right
make sure i never forget to close them
uh one of the biggest things that folks
always get in trouble with is they
didn't save
they didn't refresh
right
and they forgot to close their curly
braces so always open them always close
them and then start doing your actual
declarations
right
as always we're going to go through this
a little bit fast this one's definitely
review everything here we've done before
in a past class so if it's going a
little too fast for you that's okay
i will always share the files after
class and the vod is always immediately
available after class as well if you
watch the vod you look at the solution
file and it still doesn't make sense get
on the help channels in discord and we
can help you through it right
so
i think where a lot of folks mess up is
they're like frantically trying to copy
along
right they're frantically trying to copy
along don't frantically copy along make
sure you're digesting make sure you're
watching make sure you're asking
questions right video von means video on
demand it's the video that's live here
on twitch right after class
right
and so don't worry about like
frantically typing along you're always
going to get the solution afterwards so
take your five minutes if you didn't get
it done focus on walking through it
together
all right
all right footer should have a dark
brown background which you all use for
dark brown
let's see i'm gonna grab one
all right
aaron ender
let's see if aaron ender did us right
all right we're going to do our color
or sorry background
background and
uh the biggest yeah just full rgb
all right there we go we got like a dark
brown i don't know there's
it's brown i don't know if i would say
dark brown it's brown though we'll take
it
uh dark brown
300 pixels in height
cool
and then 70 width so
so
geez
with 70
wonderful all right
we got our background dark brown thank
you aaron we got a height 300 pixels and
a width of 70 percent
cool and then there was one other thing
that was here it was to make the h2 have
a line through it how'd y'all do your
line through on the h2
what'd you do for your line
through yep
cool
text decoration
line through
beautiful
let's see our beautiful creation let's
see our beautiful creation
you ready for this
perfection look at it
just look at it look at it got the
beautiful centering hello twitch
you got the the nice dark brown thank
you to aaron we got the line through on
mixer
looking good
i think i could be a designer what do
you think
nuns would be proud the nuns be proud i
think so
all right
vomit gang
alrighty as always
the solution will be on discord as soon
as class is over
uh when we're going through this don't
frantically try to type along just just
enjoy it ask questions let's go through
it together then you'll have the code
after class as well alright let's move
on talked about talking about some
relationships
last class
talked about that our relationships uh
can can help us target or select certain
elements uh in our css well in our html
via our css so
here we have a direct parent child
meaning that we have to select something
that is immediately inside of a parent
and so whenever you see this right
carrot you're saying find me a paragraph
that is immediately inside of a section
and that's what we see here
right and that's what we see here we see
a paragraph that is immediately inside
of a section
we also talked about
a parent child selector where it doesn't
have to be immediately it could be any
level deep right so here we're saying
find a paragraph
that is at some level
right that is at some level
inside
of a section
right find me something that's at some
level
inside of a section
cd uh with css3 you just don't need the
hyphens anymore right and so the idea
here is that we're looking over here we
see a paragraph what is the direct child
of this paragraph
what is the direct child of this
paragraph i mean sorry the direct parent
of this paragraph
the direct parent of this paragraph is
the article
but it's still inside of a section that
still makes it a child of a section it's
just not the immediate the direct parent
here
the section is the direct parent
here the direct parent is the article
and the paragraph is just a grandchild
of the section
we also have uh direct sibling right or
the the the the sibling uh where you're
looking for a paragraph that is
immediately coming after a sibling
paragraph right and so here this
paragraph has an immediate sibling that
is another paragraph
now we can tell that both of these are
siblings how
how are they both siblings
why are they siblings
same parent exactly they're inside the
same parent
if if we like got rid of this
indentation
does anything change
if we got rid of the indentation does
anything change
no nothing changes they're still
children
it's just it just doesn't look as good
we didn't put enough respect on their
name right and so we do the indentation
to make our lives a lot easier but that
indentation especially in html white
space doesn't really matter that much
and so we put that indentation to show a
little respect make a little bit easier
for us to see these parent-child
relationships but it's not really doing
anything
okay
oh
i forgot to show this to y'all
let me see if i can pull it up real
quick hold on one second one second give
me a second here let's see
projects
wrap apps
so
i showed this before
in my free time i like to build really
dumb apps
and um
here is one
uh it's part of a
series of rap apps that i've been
building for a very long time
i got a lot of these i've showed a
couple of them on stream before
but i got a lot of them like
20 plus of them no problem maybe maybe
closer to 30.
and the goal is eventually i'm gonna
release them all and the first person to
make it through all of them is gonna get
an amazon gift card
and so how do you solve this like do you
click birdman no do you like look at his
name like what do you what do you do so
only if you like know
some stuff about like hip hop or rap
you would know what to do so what what
do you do here
you gotta put respect on his name
exactly so you put respect on his name
and then there you go
so if you don't put respect on his name
it does it doesn't it doesn't get solved
right
uh there's another one here
um
this is another one i showed before i'm
only gonna show ones i've showed before
because i don't want people to do it
uh so this is chief keefe
and you have to remember all the stuff
that they don't like
and so
until you figure out like all the stuff
they don't like it just his face will
just keep shifting back and forth but if
you remember all the things that they
don't like then you can check and it'll
take you to the next one
um
i think this is the right one
this one's hard
because you only get one try like i
think some folks will just get to this
one and they'll click randomly and then
then it's done
they can't they can't continue
uh what do you think this one is for
folks that folks that haven't seen it
yeah
so this is a lyrical lemonade video
uh and this of course is the one with
blueface baby in it so you would have to
click on the blueface baby
right you don't click on blueface baby
everything else everything else will
just stop you from being able to
continue so you get one shot at clicking
on blueface baby
that's it
yeah i think i think i've shown one or
two more on stream but i don't wanna
yeah i'm gonna stop here because this
this will hopefully go out within like a
month or two nah like probably like
three more months i got a lot of them
that i want to finish
uh so yeah when i'm not on discord
and i'm not at work that's what that's
what i'm probably working
[Laughter]
on all right
let's code some relationships let's code
some relationships
so in that same set of code from tonight
uh there is a relationship css to folder
and if you click on the html
you get a bunch of the relationships
that we saw from last class
and then inside the css
there are uh four things that i would
like for you to try and do
all right
four things that i would like for you to
try and do so there is
there is an html file in the
relationship css2 and then in the css
file there are four four kind of things
i would like for you to do
uh and that's the relationship css to
folder cool all right let me bring up
the timer here we're going to do four
minutes on this one
and then of course we'll go over it
together
why is there js folder for the
engagement thank you for the engagement
we're not using js
all right good luck
my screen's not blurry make sure you
adjust the quality setting
you have uh we're lucky to have quality
settings you can turn up the quality if
you like on your own
if you all need the materials
um you can go to our discord exclamation
point discord
and
in the follow along materials channels
all the materials we're using for
tonight
yeah refreshing can help a lot um
turning it off the auto needle that
could work too yeah refreshing or
turning off auto can help a lot
doing good deck hey how you doing
120 i don't like to do that so i don't
yeah the last one's a little tricky
uh what's the name of the opening
browser plugin open in browser
i think it's called tech
what's it called tech er i think it was
yeah
tech er
i don't think you've seen my terminal
yet i use a couple different ones
actually though
i term i think is when i showed y'all
no other plug-ins for now soy get used
to using everything manually get used to
moving around your your files your
folders
happy wednesday engineer
you finished nice boom
got a lot of folks coming in done nice
well some folks got through this one
did you all use classes and ids because
it says at the top no classes no ids
making sure make sure you make make sure
you pay attention to the rules here
i wonder if you're stuck we're gonna go
over it together
our pseudo class is allowed uh you can
do without pseudo classes
there's a way to do without pseudo
classes
what are classes and ideas there are
ways of adding more specificity to your
selector we're going to see them in a
minute i go over those so if you weren't
here for last class i'm actually going
to go over that as soon as we're done
this one
beat the time nice
please open again slowly i just drag my
folder to vs code that's all i do to
open it like i drag my folder to the vs
code icon and opens up uh you can always
open vs code and then open your folder
it's up to you
you have a favorite resource to learn vs
code no i just google the stuff i don't
i need to do i don't really like to add
stuff to my text editors that much
um so i don't really customize them too
while is there something i need to
change i just google how to do it
all right let's go over this together
folks
alrighty
all right please make only world and
zebra blue let's look at world in zebra
uh both world and zebra are h2s inside
of a section
uh we also have these other h2s that are
inside of a section so what do we know
we need to do to target
the world in zebra but not unicorn and
hufflepuff
yeah we need that that parent the direct
parent child
so we can go ahead and do
section
space h2
and then do color
blue
cool
let's open this in the browser and make
sure that it's working
yep so we only got world in zebra's blue
it's a little bit bigger
only world in zebra blue nice
because if we look
world and zebra
are
direct children of this section
where as unicorn and hufflepuff are
direct children of the article they're
grandchildren of the section so that's
why we can't just do section space we
have to use the right carrot
cool
please make only zebra purple
uh oh
how'd you make only zebra purple
well you can't do h2 plus h2 if you do
h2 plus h2
that would also make
hufflepuff purple
right so we got we got to get a little
wild here we gotta go down here and
maybe do
section
h2
plus h2
right
and then make
that color
purple
let's see
let's see if we get purple
all right we got it cool
all right so what happened here
what was this an example of what what
just happened here chat
cascade exactly this is the cascade in
effect right
they both were blue
but as we went down the cascade
this selector on line seven
made this rule have the three points of
specificity that enabled us to override
that second h2 from being blue
i just forgot my semicolon here uh from
being blue to being purple
right we used that cascade to our effect
and so we wanted to target just that
second h2 how did that work right if we
go back and look
this h2
has an immediate sibling that's this h2
and they're both direct children of the
section
right so we're able to say all right
h2 was zebra
it was an immediate sibling of world and
they were both direct descendants of the
section
right
why doesn't h2 plus h2 make them both
purple because this is saying the the
direct sibling so it means it has to
have another sibling before it right if
we go back and look does world have
another sibling that comes before it
no
this world doesn't have another h2 if
there's an h2 up here then yes
right
cool
seven minutes that's that's a different
type of any any child select sorry any
uh sibling
it's any sibling
we're not gonna we're gonna skip that
for now cause i want people to get too
confused
all right let's take a look at the next
one
please make only hufflepuff gold
how can you make only hufflepuff gold
so
here's unicorn
here's hufflepuff how do i target just
hufflepuff
ah
so it's kind of the same pattern again
right like if we just did h2s it could
target both unicorn and hufflepuff so if
i do h2 plus h2
inside of an article inside of a section
that'll differentiate it from the other
ones right or we could just do inside of
article 2 right and so oh we can't just
do inside of article
uh well we could maybe because we have
one down here but let's think about we
do h2 plus h2
inside of article and i think we should
we think we got it let's try it
so article
then we do
h2
plus h2
and we're going to go ahead and make it
gold
right so the idea here being that we're
saying all right give me the h2 who has
a sibling that's an h2 that is the
direct child of an article
all right let's try that let's see let's
see if that see if that happens there's
only hufflepuff turn gold let's see all
right did i change anything in my html
all right let's see
all right yeah only help turn gold nice
now
could
could we like
could we have done more
right
could we have done more could we have
done like section article h2 plus h2 yes
we could have could have added more but
you don't want to oh you don't want to
add more than you need
does the white space matter uh the white
space mainly is for like making sure
that you can understand what's happening
but a lot of times white space really
just doesn't matter that much
cool
we're actually gonna see that later
we're gonna go full bore to see if we
can add as much specificity as possible
no
all right
keep hufflepuff gold
and make only unicorn gray
all right
keep hufflepuff gold
and make only unicorn gray so let's go
back and look at unicorn
unicorn is this h2
right is this h2
how can i make unicorn gray
but keep hufflepuff gold
let's see if we can make make can we get
unicorn gray first all right let's try
it uh if we do
article
h2
we make it color
gray
all right let's see what that does to
unicorn and hufflepuff
we go back
and we refresh
all right unicorn is gray although puffs
stay gold but duck also turned gray
let's take a look at that
can i get a little bit more specific
maybe
if i get a little bit more specific
though
well let's talk about let's start before
we get more specific why didn't
why didn't hufflepuff
turn gray
unicorn
turned gray but why didn't hufflepuff
yeah
it has less
specificity if we look at this rule here
this rule has
how many points a specificity
how many points
has three points specificity exactly and
then how many points did this have
it had two
so there's no way for stuff that gets
applied here to be overwritten by stuff
that applies here that's why
hufflepuff
stayed gold right there's three points
of specificity on that second h2 when we
target all the h2s it's enough to turn
unicorn to gray
right
but it's not enough to also turn
hufflepuff
to gray
right this doesn't have enough to
override the gold
right
all right
but we're still not out of the woods
here yet because we're running into
something interesting and that's that
duck
duck is also turning gray and i don't
want that to happen i just want unicorn
to be gray and i want hufflepuffs to be
gold so if we look
how do i differentiate between
unicorn and hufflepuff and duck
the section exactly
these ones are inside of a section as a
grandchild
this one is not ever inside of a section
so we can
go back to our css
and say all right well
section
space article
h2
right and if i do that
what's the weird thing that's going to
happen though
what's gonna happen here
we got unicorn gray
but hufflepuff is back to gray
so what what could i do the cascade
came into effect here it overrided this
rule up here what could i do
i'm looking to see all your
i could get more specific i could do
that right maybe we do this maybe if we
do
well this hufflepuff was
inside of a section right so maybe we
just do
section article h2 plus h2
now how many points of specificity does
this rule have
how many points of specificity does this
rule have
so this has four right we get
one for the h2 one for the h2
one for the article one for section
that's four
and we get one for the h2 one for the
article one for section that's three
so anything that happens in this rule
cannot be overwritten by this rule
so
if i make my sibling h2 gold
i can't override it
it's not working
why is it not working
why is it not working the theory is
correct
i didn't save it
right if we look if we look
dot
is still solid means i didn't save
let's save
let's come back
let's refresh boom unicorn hufflepuff
well done well done chat you all did
well
cool
let's uh i mean there are other ways
that we could have done this
ordering could have helped here we could
have done things like classes and ids
you know i didn't want you to use them
you could use pseudoselectors you know i
didn't want you to use them right so
ordering could have also helped here but
uh we were able to get through it
because we understood specificity and we
understood the cascade right so the idea
that i want you to do
is after tonight's class like after we
get done the raid after we spread our
love positivity and all the follows you
got to come back and play with this
stuff
you got to give yourself some more rules
right you got to give yourself some some
some things that that are going to make
you have to put in some work right high
cognitive effort right make sure that
you can start to see all right well the
cascade might come into effect if
they're same or greater specificity
we're going to get a lot of practice
with this stuff come to office hour
we're going to get more practice with
this stuff but the idea is that you got
to also push yourself a little bit right
give yourself some some odd things what
if i want hufflepuff to be
purple but i also want zebra to be
purple at the same time like can you do
it right
alrighty
let's review our specificity and our ids
and classes so so far we've used our
relationships and for the rest of our
work tonight uh
i still want you to focus on your
relationships i really don't want you to
use classes or ids just yet
uh starting next class you want to start
using your classes and ideas go for it i
just want you to get comfortable with
your relationship selectors first before
you move on to classes and ids but
to hint at them so we can talk about
specificity
right talk about specificity
uh ids can be used once per element
and then once you use that id name it
can never be shared on any other html
element so
if you look at this paragraph
it has the id of zebra
this paragraph
cannot have another id it can have
classes and other stuff but it can't
have another id
and then that id of zebra cannot be used
anywhere else in your html file
it's a unique identifier right it is a
unique identifier
is it possible to build a fully fledged
website without using a single class or
id you can
but let's talk about it
let's
hold that fault for just a second let me
cover classes and ids again and then
hold that thought come back to it with
it in just a few seconds
right
can you create a whole website without
classes and ids hold that let's hold
that thought in our head for a second
ids are unique they can only be used
once
right and they cannot be reused anywhere
else in that page it's like your discord
username like the username with all the
numbers in it there's only one it cannot
be reused and it's a way to talk to you
directly so when we see this id in our
in our css it enables us to talk to that
paragraph and only that paragraph
classes can be used to talk to multiple
elements at the same time
maybe i want everyone with glasses to
stand up right or maybe i want everyone
with great beards to stand up right and
so i could target multiple elements at
the same time
right
to stand up
and so we can see that in our code here
both of these paragraphs have the class
of bob
right
have the class of bob i can target both
of those classes
at the same time i write one rule
i wrote one rule in my css but i
targeted both
of those paragraphs right so ids are
unique
classes can be reused across and it
enables us to target multiple elements
okay
now an a html element can have an id
and it can have as pretty much as many
classes as you want um
there are people have like tested like
you can there's like a theoretical limit
i'm sure there's a theoretical limit but
you'll never ever ever hit that
theoretical limit in actual practice
okay so people used to think it was like
255 but then somebody like tested it it
was way more than 255
but the idea here is that
ids are unique classes can be reused
all right
now somebody asked me before we get to
our specificity game somebody asked me
leon can you
have a whole site
that does not use classes and ids and
let's take let's take a look at our html
that we had here
this whole site works without any
classes and ids and i could
build a whole website like a beautiful
website that just used all these
relationships
but there's something that could happen
and here's what could happen
some [__] could come along
right they could come along
and put a section just a section
they could put a section
and when they put that section
what happens
we throw hands in them
it breaks everything right it breaks
everything if you have these like nice
meticulous
relationship selectors right the
relationship is over right as soon as
somebody throws that section there this
relationship is over right
all
[Music]
all of the relationships that you put in
all that hard work all the section h2
plus h2s all these section articles h2s
right like all those things would just
break
so while yes
you could do a whole site
just
with relationship selectors it only
takes one person to add one
other element to break all your hard
work and so for that reason we don't
build sites with just relationship
selectors
i typically will have classes
on most of my containing elements and
then i'll use relationships inside of
those classes
i'm one of the weirdos that i don't
think i'm a weirdo anymore i think a lot
of people have moved this way i don't
really use ids
for css i'll use ids when i get to
javascript but they're too rich they
have too much specificity so i avoid ids
i use classes on my containers and then
when i want to target stuff inside those
containers i use my relationship
selectors
yeah
can we explain containing elements
containing elements are just elements
that contain other stuff sections
articles headers footers
cool
alrighty folks
we are at the top of the hour when we
come back we're gonna get some
specificity practice in and then we are
going to do
um
i think it's a really fun getting our
fingers on the keyboard we're gonna try
and make some ridiculous selectors when
we come back so we're gonna do we're
gonna play guess that specificity no
peeking ahead and then we are going to
build some ridiculous selectors just to
see what we can do together get our
fingers back on them keyboards and uh
yeah but for now if you're new around
these parts like to stay healthy we like
to make sure we take our breaks so we're
gonna take our five minute break uh
please if you're able get up move around
hydrate and uh we'll be back in five
minutes
five minutes on the clock here
cool
i'll bring out some tunes for you and
i'll see you all in five
you what's between ux and ui ux is like
how you move through an application uis
like the things that you interact with
and see
so user experience versus user interface
as we went over clear fix on during
office hours
so definitely re-watch that that vod i
think a bunch of people have like posted
timestamps to it uh in in discord but
when we get to
more layout stuff we'll definitely go
over it in class
leon is studying five hours a day too
much too little i want to avoid burnout
it's up to you
uh some people have the ability to study
for five hours a day most don't
most people just don't
for a lot of people that's aspirational
um most people have like two to three
like a real like focus a day
um but it's a really it's a really
personal thing it's something you can
always build up to too if you're not
there i totally did not start
with my pomodoros i'm able to do now and
the amount of work i'm able to do it
took me a long time to build up to it
you gotta do what you gotta do what
feels best
i think a good goal in the beginning is
two hours a day
and then some days you might feel a bit
better and a little bit longer but i i
would start there as a good goal
outside of class that is too
all right folks come on back come on
back
we're gonna have a huge party after this
i hope so
hopefully the the world is situated in a
way that we could do meetups and stuff
like that
larry thank you for the gifted sub
thank you to all the subs today too
a lot of folks using the the jeff
bezos's money i appreciate all the prime
subs you have amazon prime you can uh
sub for free and so i appreciate you
spending all bezos's money
oh
mastermind what's going on how you doing
thank you return gifted sauce
hold on y'all following mastermind you
all messed up
i can't wait to hopefully catch you live
so we can send a rager away
but mastermind is the one i keep talking
about folks if you want to do more data
sciencey stuff they're the person to
follow
um
they were also running a boot camp
that was that was pretty cool to watch
they were in person but streaming it uh
in person it was really cool
hope you're doing well thank you for
stopping by
i'll uh
i'll send out the the link so that you
all can follow their channel and then
we're definitely gonna have to do a raid
as soon as possible
appreciate it hope you're doing well
all right folks
get back in here
everyone's throwing up the primes thank
you
as always the the the subs and all that
stuff goes to nonprofit i work at the
during the day directly to our emergency
fund and so i appreciate that
time to work exactly
alrighty
let's take a look
at specificity let me show the music
here
alrighty so
let's play our favorite game at the
moment
guess that specificity how many points
of specificity does this
rule here have
how many points
guesses in chat please
all right seeing 21 21 21 21 exactly
we get
uh
10 points for the unicorn
another 10 points for robot because
they're both classes
and then one point for the paragraph
right so we get 21 points of specificity
there
two classes right two classes and a tag
for 21 points 31 20.
let's do another one here how many
points of specificity does this rule
have
all right
110 in chat i see it so we get
one point sorry ten points for the class
and a hundred points for the id
so we had one id one class zero tags or
a hundred and ten points of
nice
and
how many points specificity does this
rule have
oh
a lot of y'all got got
a lot of y'all got got it's all right
though a lot of y'all got
y'all are spending bezos's money i
appreciate it
it's so wild there's so many of you what
hold on one second
that's
ridiculous mastermind started off with
the 10 gifted thank you so much
and then minimal
spot grammar ban booze htb yv0
uh julia nan
wes
kai
epochs exclusion stevie 834
boogie shogo cava
otter
real spin amy
artis sauer lay
[Laughter]
these whiz
never
supremo trilton
comrade
misro
chutty farrell ten
mando
attack this black
i can't even read them yam moo wrench
sorrows joe talon knox
major manny jf
it's just so i can't there's too many
holy crap thank you so much everybody
i gotta figure out like
i gotta figure out how to to
to say thank you more regularly but it's
just so many that just came in uh i
appreciate you all
i definitely see you all come in mo
gabriel thank you for the for the five
gift it
that's wild
uh if you if you now have if you now
have
micro leons like the emotes put some
emotes in chat for us please i would
love to see the emotes that's pretty
cool
that's wild
and as always please
never have to sub none of my content
overview behind paywalls
uh the the primes you see you're coming
in are just free if you have amazon
prime you get a free sub so i appreciate
it
i'll get all the emotes ah
y'all looking good at me
thank you everybody
alrighty uh so this was
a got got moment
because you were right there are 10
points of specificity in the selector
right there are 10 points of specificity
in the selector but then
but then
boom the bang important adds a thousand
points of specificity right
so a thousand and ten
i'm going to get a call from amazon leon
you got to slow down
you got to slow down you're burning
through our resources here leon what are
you doing too much too much of bezos's
money i'm going to get a call right from
the big man themselves
i appreciate it's wild
so a thousand points from the important
all right
and 10 points
for
the
class so a thousand points zero ids one
class zero tags a thousand and ten
points of specificity
boom
all right let's get some specificity
practice this one i i love this one all
right this would be pretty fun
uh i like this one a lot it's one of my
favorite early things that we do so
let's look at this one specificity
practice in the same materials from
today if you're new as always the
materials are on our discord exclamation
point discord right exhibition point
discord can you have two bang importance
i don't think so
but it's worth trying i never thought to
do that
i don't know we'll try it all right
i think i think you only get one yeah
some people are saying no but i always
like to test those things you just never
know there's so much funky stuff in css
you just never know some things i
thought and then like in a million years
i'd never be possible to do it and i
tried i'm like
all right so we have in the same
materials from today they're on discord
in the following materials channel uh we
have specificity specificity practice
uh index.html has a lot of stuff going
on in here look at all these classes uh
look at some of these ids and then
inside the css is what we're going to do
okay so
specificity practice folder you see the
html has all these classes and ids and
then the style.css has four things that
i would like for you to do
and so go ahead
and i'm gonna put four minutes on the
timer
and while out on these ones please uh
have fun with the last two
and go for it four minutes on the timer
and we're gonna go over it together so
get as far as you can in the four
minutes you get done throw it down in
the chat
ender's like done
we're gonna go over it together i'll
bring the tunes on for you
can we use ids and classes this time yes
you can use ids and classes on this one
this is specifically practice with our
classes and ids yeah
thank you for asking though
which one are we doing we are doing the
specificity practice and the things that
you have to do are in um
in the style sheet
uh engineer bay yes you can of course
figure to be true seems like a trap i
hope so
i say you know you're doing it right
people are fishy
no worry boards we're going to go over
it together
ah by select i mean give a um
write a selector with the highest level
specificity that you can do
the highest level you can do yeah
oh no sorry computer crashed
worlds i do of course
[Laughter]
no no no zebra blue is not a color like
i want you to style the words rhino and
zebra blue there's no there's no color
called zebra blue that's funny i didn't
think about that
if i select i mean make a selector yeah
as part of your css rule
right right right dragging it
feeling lost it's not working make sure
you saved you refreshed
yep make sure that you close your curly
braces
could you show the point slide
or
between this one
one point for tags 10 points for classes
100 point for ids a thousand for other
yep don't forget to send me coins
exactly
how do we handle classes with spaces in
the name they're not spaces they're two
separate classes that's a really great
question those are actually two separate
classes
i'll be sure we walk through that
gasp
i switch up every once in a while you
know
all right folks come on in
come on in let's come back no matter if
you finished or not don't worry come on
back let's go through it together
it's a great song meal
alrighty
let's take a look at this one together
all right make only rhino and zebra blue
so if we look
we've seen a lot of interesting things
here and somebody actually asked about
this
this is
this is two separate classes
right this is two separate classes this
this h2 has the class of africa
and the class of four legs which makes
sense for a rhino same thing here this
this zebra has the class of africa
and the class of four legs right so a
lot of times maybe you want to style
things with multiple classes right if if
you were looking at me
i would have the class of glasses i
would have the class of amazing hair i
would have a class of amazing beard i
have a class of pokemon t-shirt right
like i have lots of classes that
describe me that i would then want to be
able to put those attributes on other
people right i'd want to be able to make
sure that other people could have
glasses other people could have great
hair other people could have great
beards other people could have well i
don't know if they could have
the the pokemon worlds t-shirt but maybe
they could maybe they could right uh and
so classes can be reused right classes
can be reused and multiple elements
might have
right might have
uh those those classes
cool
alrighty
so let's take a look at this we want to
make we want to make rhino
and zebra what do we want to do to them
we're going to make only ryan and zebra
blue so if we look does anything else
have those classes
no nothing else has those classes so i
could target it by the ids i could say
id and zebra right so i could do
something like this
i could do
rhino
and i could say
color blue
right and then i could do
zebra
and color
blue
right if we look
rhino has the idea of rhino and zebra
has the idea of zebra
right
and so i i could
i could do those two ids
right
a cool thing that i could do is i could
also just do this
right that comma means target both of
them at the same time
right
or
if i didn't want to use the ids a lot of
folks are looking in here both of these
h2s
are inside the section that has the
class of top
right so maybe i could do let's see
and then just the h2s inside of it
right so every h2
that's inside of something that has the
class of top
so if we look
both of these are h2s
and they're inside of a section that has
the class of top so this should work
yup rhino and zebra are blue cool
yep the the
octo thorpe or hashtag is what we use
for ids
cool
um the thing here says only right
says only
that's a very specific word
only
right
is there a chance if we were to add
other
css
sorry add other html that this would
only
make rhino and zebra blue
only is a very specific word here
there's a chance if we came here and
added another
h2 inside of this section that this
would no longer only
target
right
rhino and zebra so i think because of
the word only that kind of makes it
forces our hand a little bit here and so
i'm going to comment this out so it's
still here if you come back and want to
look at this code after class but i
think this is only we kind of have to go
with the
the the um targeting the ids right like
in case some person comes along and adds
another h2 i want to make sure that
we're targeting only them um what color
was supposed to be blue right only those
two
why not select the classes that's a
great question well could something else
come along that has africa and four legs
right could something else come along
could i create another h2 that also has
those classes yeah
can i create another h2 that has either
of these ids
no
right so the ids are the only sure bet
to satisfy this only
word here right
yeah be a little nitpicky here but i
think i think it's just a fun exercise
to talk through it right
make only hufflepuff gold let's go and
take a look at hufflepuff
how can i target only hufflepuff
best house oh i'm glad you all agree
thank you yes hufflepuff is indeed the
best house thank you
oh you meant the id best house okay yep
best house would be how we would target
hufflepuff i'm glad we all agree though
so let's go ahead and do best house with
the id
and
[Laughter]
let's make it gold and i know all of the
harry potter fans are freaking out right
now i know it's not gold it's okay we're
gonna make it through this
see i'm a hufflepuff with a gryffindor
rising and so that's why i threw gold in
here
all right
let's go ahead and save this and let's
go back and check
beautiful
a little bit bigger
so we can see hufflepuff is only gold
that worked nice
next one
please select duck
with the highest level specificity i
love these so much please select duck
with the highest level specificity
possible
throw uh
throw your
your um guesses in chat just so i can
see this this
this monstrosity
uh so people keep saying how do we
handle classes with spaces you cannot
have a class with a space
as soon as you put a space in your class
that's two separate classes
right and so um there there are none so
right here this uh best house has the
class of harry potter it has the class
of triwizard champ and it has the class
of badger
those are three separate classes
cool
all right
right we can we can stop spamming the
the guess is here
all right let's take a look at these
let's let's do one together here's
here's duck
all right at the base level
duck
has how many classes
how many classes does duck have
has two
so let's start there likes to quack
and fight 10 or 100. so let's go ahead
and copy those two classes
and if i wanted to target it with the
most specificity possible i can do this
h2
likes to quack
and then fight 10 or
uh 100.
so notice what i did here
notice how there is no space here
when there is no space
what you are saying
is find me something that has all of
them
right so what i'm saying here is i'm
saying find me an h2
that has the class likes to quack
and the class fight 10 or 100
right no spaces means find something
that has all of these
right if i was to put a space here
what would that mean if i did that if i
put a space there what would that mean
that makes exactly
that makes it a parent child
relationship then we're going to be
looking for something that has the class
fight 10 or 100 that's inside of an h2
that has the class likes the quack so we
can't have the space there because
that's a parent child relationship
right right
it's a parent-child relationship
right
cool
so here it's not a parent-type
relationship we're looking for the h2
that has
this class
and this class
and is an h2
right let's just make this a color just
so we can see it um
uh let's color
lime
there we go
cool let's just make sure that that's
there
all right and we can see that duck is
that nice green
right you see that duck is that nice
green
look at it there we go and so
this
is not the most specificity
we're just getting started
all right so it's an h2 with two classes
what is this h2 with two classes inside
of it
we go back and look
this h2
with two classes
is inside of an article
right since i have an article that has
the class r ducks dinosaurs
right
so now we gotta we gotta handle this
this parent-child relationship
so now we have to do
article
our ducks dinosaurs
maybe maybe we'll be even more exact
here with the the right carrot right so
now we're saying all right
it's gonna get ridiculous i'm telling
you it's gonna get ridiculous right
what i was saying is find me an h2
that has the class of likes to quack
and the class of fight 10 or 100 that is
immediately inside
of an article
that has the class are ducks dinosaurs
does capitalization matter try it
break it on your end see what happens
all right
now this article how do we get even more
ridiculous how can we how can we keep
this going
what is this article like well we know
it's inside of a body in an html so we
got to go there
but what what comes before we get to the
body or the html
this article is a what
this article is a sibling
this article is a sibling this article
is a sibling to this section that has
the class of middle so i'm going to use
that
i'm going to say
section
with the class of middle
that is this it's the sibling so give me
the article that's the sibling to the
section with the class of middle
and uh this section with the class of
middle
is a sibling to that section
that has the class of top so we gotta we
gotta do that too
so you gotta do
section
with the class of top
that's also a sibling
and then
the sibling to the section with the
class of top
is the h1 with the id of high
all right so we got to do h1
with the id of high
normally you would never ever
do this
like h1 id high because normally when
we're not being uh wild lads today right
when we're we're not we're not walling
out here um
we uh
we would just use the id the id is
already specific enough
right
all right
already specific enough right
and so what we're doing
is
being ridiculous
all right so we said
find me h2 that has the class of likes
to quack
and the class fight 10 or 100
that is
the immediate child
of an article with the class r ducks
dinosaurs
that is the sibling of section with the
class of middle which is the sibling a
section with the class of top which is
the sibling of the h1 with the id of
high
and then that's all inside the body
that's a child
and then all that's inside the html
so html
body
and uh i haven't even reached my final
form folks
what am i missing
stack that vomit
bang important baby
all right let's save it
see if it works
the works first try let's go
no he didn't i did folks i went there
bangers only
all right let's take a look at it
cool
so
this h2
which had those two classes
was inside this article which had that
class which was a sibling to the section
with this class which was the sibling to
the section with this class which was
the sibling to the h1 with this id that
was the child of the body which was the
child of the html and then we gave it
bang important
and it worked
how many points is specificity go ahead
and take a second how many points of
specificity
how many points of specificity
over nine 000.
too many
all right let's take a look
all right
21 21 21
32.
yep
54 154
plus the bang important
hundred and fifty seven did i count it
right all right chat spamming it too
nice
well done everybody well done all right
now
there's another one down here
uh rhino with the highest level
specificity do that one for homework
please
now you've seen the the the wildness
that we can have up here uh go ahead and
do this one for homework for me we're
not gonna do it right now we'll go over
it
during office hours but yeah do this one
for homework for me
cool
we got some important matters to attest
to for the rest of this evening
my brain just puked
all right thank you for playing along i
know i know it's funny but it does help
you kind of visualize what you can do
all right
let's talk about the box model and get
into some layout and then we'll we'll
end for the the evening
all right something really important for
you to know about how html and css works
is that every
single thing
in web development is a box
everything's a box
everything is trying to take up space uh
horizontal and vertical space when we're
talking about the box model uh so
everything is a box i don't care if it's
a piece of text i don't care if it's a
section everything is a box and so the
box model is concerned with
how does that take up space what and
rhyme and reason and logic behind why
things take up space and the reason why
this matters is because we eventually
want to have like stuff sit next to
other things we want to have stuff be
inside of other stuff and if
we don't know how much space things are
taking up we can't sit stuff next to
each other we can't put stuff inside and
so we are going to start with trying to
understand the box model
all right
let's pretend
oh not pretend let's just do it
let's go ahead and
let's make a section
let me let me get some black text here
let's go ahead and create a section
and that section
is going to have a height
of 100 pixels
and a width
of 100
pixels
cool
and so if
we drew that out
we would see
[Music]
a nice
square
box all right nice square box all but
all y'all primer's got the uh
the emotes i see a lot of nuns in chat
tonight don't blame me blame the nuns
all right
so we would have a nice square box
height of the 100 pixels 100 pixels chat
my curly braces are not closed i'm going
to add more yeah let me just close them
all the way down here there we go curly
brace closed
um
how wide is my is my section right now
i promise the curly brace is closed
right there
how wide is it
100 pixels wide how tall is it 100
pixels tall
if i was to put
let's say i had an article that i wanted
to put these sections inside of right
and my article was 300 pixels wide
how many of these sections could fit in
my article
if my article is 300 pixels wide
how many of these sections right now
could fit inside
three exactly three of these could fit
all right
when it comes to the box model there are
three really important things
going horizontally we have width
then we have padding and then we have
border
and then going
vertically we have
height
padding border right if we look at this
image
you can you can see it here in the
slides right you can see that we have
with
padding
and then
border right and so all this is
are the three things that we can control
that take up size uh when you're trying
to calculate according to the box model
margin i don't throw into this
calculation margin's a bully it's used
to push around the box model but not
necessarily something that you would
consider a true part of the box all
right now
let's draw this out so right now we have
a section with a height and a width of
100 pixels let's go ahead and give this
a border i'm going to make my border red
i'm going to give it a border
order
let's say
uh 5 pixels
solid
red
cool so i'm going to give my my section
a border of 5 pixels
so here we go
[Music]
there we go
beautiful
has five pixels
solid red going around the whole side
all right
how wide what the heck
ah
you mother humpers
i think anyone can contribute to the
whiteboard
when um
when this is known
so i will find you that's all i'm going
to say
i will find you
and let's go ahead and get a new one
i got got i really got get
do we used to use a different white
board before this class
and that one is no longer
all right let's see
you got got
i got to do this without
you all being able to see it
hmm
i actually don't know if whiteboard
gives me a unique one each time
let's see
oh there you go i can request a new one
and let me go to
go to
maine
and then i'll make it full screen
all right let's try that
cool
i don't know if it's oh no it won't
because it'll still show it on your end
hmm
that won't actually do it
oh that's what i can do there we go
that's what i'll do all right i got it i
know how to do it i know i'm gonna do it
i know i'm gonna do it
all right let me do this real quick
and we're back
cool all right there we
[Laughter]
go you know what i uh we're not gonna
drag that person
you don't know what's going on in their
lives while they feel like they have to
do it it's okay we don't know what's
going on they might just be having a bad
day
and they're doing it for the laws if i
was
12 year old leon i'd be a little [__]
doing the same thing so
can uh can't get mad
we got to realize that some folks are
just young
and they're going to do things because
they can do it and do it for the lulls
more power to you
hopefully it made your day i hope that
like yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah have some fun with it
let's try it again
told you leon we've been doing the same
thing
all right let's go ahead and do it again
so we had a section that was black
beautiful
and it had a height
of 100 pixels
and then we had a width
of 100 pixels and then
we had
a nice lovely
box because of that
and then we had a border
that was red
right so let's do border
and we'll do
5 pixels
solid
red
cool
and so then we have this lovely
red border
going around it
and my question to you all
is
joel said are you drawing with a mouse
no i'm using a pencil it's just that bad
okay don't blame me blame the nuns
um
if you
right
were to look at this how wide
is this element
how wide is this element
oh we're getting a mix here
this element is 110
pixels wide it's 110 pixels wide let me
show you why
we have
five pixels
on the left hand side for the border and
then we have
five pixels on the right hand side or
the border right we need
to account for five pixels on both sides
right so five pixels on both sides
all right i got got exactly
and so
what we're going to do next is we're
going to add padding into the mix
we're going to add padding into the mix
right with padding what padding does
is it increases the distance right
it increases the distance between the
element
and its border
so what patty's going to do is it's
going to push the border away from the
element that's all padding does padding
pushes the border
away from the element
right and so let's go ahead and try
adding some padding on just the right
hand side
if you just do padding it adds it on all
sides like you can do it all sizes
shortcuts to change it let's just add a
little bit of padding on the right hand
side
and let's make our padding green
let's go ahead and do padding
right
and let's make it
uh
let's do it 20 pixels
20 pixels of padding on the right hand
side all right and so what's going to
happen now is we have to erase
just for now just so we can see it
we gotta erase our border on the right
hand side just for now
and then we got to go ahead and add our
padding in here so
this is our
20 pixels of padding
and then we got to bring back our border
there you go
so now my question to you all
is
how wide
is this element
it's beautiful exactly
it's a hundred and thirty pixels wide
right we got five pixels on the border
here
100 pixels for the original element
20 pixels
for the padding and another five here
for the border on the other side so 5
plus 5 plus 20 plus 100 gives us
130 pixels of width
cool
now
if
we have 130 pixels width and we go back
to that original question if i had an
article
that was
300 pixels wide right if i had an
article that i wanted to sit these
inside of and that article was 300
pixels wide
how many of these elements could i sit
inside of there
yeah
i could fit two
right i could fit two and the last one
would run out of room and it would break
the next line
right so that's why the box model is
important
right
we can make sure
things have
heights
whiffs borders and padding and all of
this stuff matters when we start trying
to get stuff to sit next to each other
because if we don't account for it it
won't fit and it could break to the next
line
cool now the cool thing is you can add
padding on all sides you can have border
on all sides
and then the last thing that people
bring up a lot with this is margin
margin i don't really account when it
comes to the box model what margin does
is it pushes the box model around so
what it'll do is if we added margin on
the top it would push our box down
if we added margin on the left it would
push our box to the right
right so margin can come around and push
this box model around
okay
we're gonna get lots of practice with
this we're gonna see this a lot in um
we're gonna see this a lot
when we get to more advanced layout
stuff and so for now
everything's a box it can have height
width doesn't matter if it's a piece of
text or whatever height width
padding and border
alrighty
a few more things to get through tonight
we drew out our box model
time for some layouts
you should stop here this is a lot ah
got a little bit more a little bit more
time for some layouts
we want to be able to start
and be able to start moving things
around getting stuff to sit next to
other things
and to start off with our layouts
we are going to use floats
[Music]
did he say floats he did say floats what
what
why it's out there oh no i want my money
back
yes floats folks all right it's gonna be
all right trust me it's gonna be all
right
flexbox and grid are far superior when i
am writing code in production i do not
use floats anymore i use flexbox i use
grid uh
i i'm i'm hip
i know what houdini is i'm hip right i
get you
but here's what's gonna happen
a lot of you are gonna join a company
and some of the very first projects
you're going to work on because your
company's old will be to use floats
and floats are way harder to learn
than flexbox and css grid is right
and so i want you to learn floats here
with me in the comfort of 100 devs i
want you to learn floats
i want you to get practice with them
you're going to hear for some of our
alumni a lot of them the first projects
they worked on use floats a lot of the
things they work on right out the jump
are converting stuff from floats to flex
and all that other fun stuff
the other thing too is that floats
really don't need any special vocabulary
it's just percentages
and so if you can do percentages you
know how to layout stuff with floats
for a lot of folks floats can actually
be way easier to pick up than a flexbox
there's quirks there's a lot of weird
funky stuff with it but
in the 10 years i've been doing this
students are quicker to learn layout
with floats than they are with flex i
know that's blasphemy i know folks are
freaking out about it but it's just true
it's just it's if you know how to break
down stuff into percentages you learn a
few quirks you're good you don't have to
learn any extra um
vocabulary right
and so the
the
eventuality of this program is that we
will move into flex we'll be using grid
all of our projects down the line won't
be using floats they will all be flexed
they will all be grid um but for tonight
and for the next couple of classes we're
going to use floats
all right
there's kind of like one really big
thing about floats
and what they want to do is whenever you
float an element
it's gonna fight as hard as it can to
get into a corner
right we're gonna go a little over
tonight folks we're a little over
tonight it's gonna fight as hard as it
can to get into a corner
right so if i was to float this aside to
the left
it's going to go up as much as it can go
and then to the left as much as it can
go trying to fight to get into that
corner
if i was to float
if i was to float this uh main or this
section to the right what it's going to
do is it's going to go up as much as it
can go and then to the right as much as
it can go it's going to fight as hard as
it can right to get in that right hand
corner
right
so that's the idea here the idea that
all float does is fight for its life to
get up into the corner
and when you're using floats with layout
when you use when you try to lay out a
page using floats what you're doing is
you're using a side effect
what you're doing when you use floats is
that if everything's trying to get into
the corner
well then stuff will sit next to each
other
right so
if i was to let's say float both of
these elements to the left right if i
was to float both of these elements to
the left
they would both go all the way up and
then try and go to the left as much as
they could
go all the way up
and to the left as much as they could
and the side effect would be that they
would be sitting
next to each other
so that's the core of how
layout
can be achieved with floats they're all
fighting to get into the corner and the
side effect is they wind up sitting next
to each other they won't overlap unless
you do something funky
all right
15 minutes of pain
here is a layout
this layout has five elements on it if
we're looking at this we got to take
some rough guesses what element might
this be
what could it be
header
how about this down here
what could that be
footer
exactly
and then we got three
identical elements here what what could
those three elements be
sections right that could be sections
right so we got
a header
we got a footer
and we got
three sections
beautiful
right header footer three sections now
this header and footer probably both
like 100 pixels tall right
and then these sections are probably i
don't know let's just say like 300
pixels tall
right
how can i get
these three sections
to sit next to each other
i could float them all to the left
right
but i would also need to give them a
percentage
because if they were if they didn't have
a width on them right
if they didn't have a width they would
all still stack if they were still 100
whiff they wouldn't sit next to each
other so floating is one part we also
have to change their width exactly
to 33.333
repeating of course leroy jenkins right
we can have four decimal places in css
so if the four decimal places in css
if we made all of these
33 pixels
33.333.6 pixels 33.3333
with and we floated them all to the left
they would all sit next to each other
okay
so
we're not going to do 15 minutes because
we're over time we're gonna do seven
minutes of pain
seven minutes of pain
i want you to create
a new
folder
that has an html file and a css file in
it
and see if you can get this layout to
work
it's hard it's a challenge
don't worry if you can't get it you got
seven minutes we're gonna come back and
go over it together seven minutes of
pain uh and then we're gonna go over it
together talk through some quirks and
features that we can see here
right and then i'm gonna talk about the
homework and what to expect for thursday
and then we're out of here uh we'll do a
raid so go ahead six minutes 30 seconds
build this layout
go
do it
try it try it even if you have no idea
where to start try
you have no idea how to start don't
worry try
and we'll go back over in six minutes
and 22 seconds
yeah
doug tomorrow yeah i was thinking as i
said it yeah quirks and features
we are building this layout
html and css that's it no flex
no grid just floats
where can i sign up for your calligraphy
course
no flex stone
it's beautiful
what's your timer this is
smart countdown
timer the mac app
drop of sorrow lowered yeah some of you
all just made it to the trough of sorrow
welcome
welcome to the trough of sorrow
good to be here
welcome get comfortable i'm gonna be
here for another 28 weeks
but you know what [__] that
this is class five
and all this stuff you can already do
come on
class five and you're already like
you're like well i don't know about the
specificity on that leon and well i
don't know about floating like come on
like where were you five classes ago
think about that
even if you even if you're just like
barely
hanging on to threads
you're so far ahead of other folks that
you have like this they just have no
idea right
you all have skills that no one can ever
take from you
more minute
we'll go over this then we'll do a
lovely raid
no idea where to start officially
observer that's all right we're going to
go over the whole thing together
this is where having done the reading
starts to come in the come into play
folks
you didn't do the shay hal this is too
much if you didn't do the learn layout
this is a lot of it's a lot
we only raid gamers no we only rate
people in our category
yeah we only pick people in our category
um yeah we've never made anybody that's
not
in
science and tech or software development
or someone that like
some people are in just chatting but
they only do software development
being confused is part of the learning
exactly
got some folks coming in done all right
this one's hard there's some quirks
we're going to talk through it if you
didn't get it don't worry we're going to
go over it all together
um
two minutes
my borders are thick uh it's probably
because the borders are stacking up next
to each other don't worry about the
borders
don't worry about the borders for now
by reviewing the struggle this part of
the shay hal true
thick borders gonna be there we're not
gonna worry about the thick borders
tonight
problems for future leon
and the vibe the song has been funky
tonight
did it nice
not feeling very beyonce right now sorry
we can't always feel beyonce right
oh we got some more duns coming in this
one hurts it's literally called 15
minutes of pain and i gave you half the
time
oh that turned into much of an evil
laugh there at the end
in different second remember clear fix
yeah it's always weird
literally called 15 minutes of pain
and i gave you half the time
[Music]
all right folks
about 25 seconds left
challenge us leon
what pain teach them nested table
layouts from the 90s
alrighty
come on back i don't care how far you
got it's
i'm all back
i'm gonna go over this together
all right come on back
alrighty
let's take a look at this together
all right i'm just going to go back to
the vs code that i had open
i'm going to go back to the vs code i
had open
and
in here i'm just going to create a new
folder
there's like this this lovely icon that
you can click for a new folder
and i'm just going to call this not
inside of specificity practice though
um there we go
i'm going to call this
pane
right so i just created a new folder
called pain
so you can click that like plus folder
icon uh you can do file new folder you
can go into your
um finder or fi whatever you create your
your files and folders at uh you can go
in there
and just call it whatever you create a
folder called or whatever you want
so i created a folder called pain
and inside of pane i'm going to do a new
file i'm going to call it index
html remember we always got to make sure
we we get use the right file extension
so index.html and i'm also going to
create a style
dot css
i'm not going to go through the extra
trouble of like creating
like a like a folder for my css i'm just
just creating the two files
uh so
in my index.html i can use the the trick
that we saw in a previous class i can do
html
and then html5 and boom there we go we
got the the the lovely like starter for
html nothing i really have to do extra
here other than
link this html file to my css file
right
so
i got this bit good good good good oh my
god i forgot about that yeah
i can't tell you how many times
i
uh i can't tell you how many times i
have
built out way too much forgot that i had
linked it and i'm just like racking my
brain as to why it's not working so
you're totally not alone all of us at
some point have forgotten to link our
css so let's go ahead and link
and they're just going to call this
style
dot css
cool
here we go so our index.html and our
stylesheet should be linked and let's go
ahead and build out those um those five
elements that we saw in the picture
right we have a header a footer and
three sections let's go ahead and do
that
header
and let's go and do a section
and we we need three of them so section
and section
and then a footer
cool there we go
we got our header our three sections and
a lovely
footer
cool
um
let's go ahead and save all of this
and i'm going to go over to my style
sheet
and i am going to target my header first
let's go ahead and target our header
and i'm just going to give it a height
of 100 pixels
and i'm going to give it a border just
so we can see them they're going to be
thick
3 pixels solid black
right let's save it and if we open this
correctly right like if we open if we
open it right what we expect to see is
at least a header
there we go we got a header
it's blurry give it a refresh or change
your quality settings cool boom we got a
header showing up cool all right header
showing up and then if we go ahead and
let's let's let's do our footer
uh let's do our footer
footer
we do a height 100 pixels again
and border ah this doesn't feel good why
doesn't this feel good
why why why does this not feel good to
me
it's not dry it's wet exactly it's wet
i've repeated myself dry stands for do
not repeat yourself and so this is not
very dry this is exactly the same code
so we can just go up here and do comma
footer when you use the comma what it
means is it says apply these
declarations to both the header and the
footer
what stands for write everything twice i
like it
uh so we can do that and then join get
rid of four lines of code now right now
that was just four lines of code but
eventually eventually right eventually
uh we are
going to have thousands of lines of code
and so if we can save code here and
there it does add up in meaningful ways
okay
all right
next
we've got to think about those sections
you got to think about those sections
right
so these sections are going to sit next
to each other
right these sections are gonna sit next
and three of them are gonna be sitting
next to each other and so we know that
we said all right if they're gonna be
sitting next to each other we'll make
them 33 percent width
and we will float to sit them next to
each other so let's go and do our
sections
we're gonna we're gonna have some issues
that come up here so if we go ahead and
do
uh
let's go and give them a height
give them a height of like 300 pixels
and let's give them a width we said 33
and then css can have up to three
decimal places so three to three point
three percent repeating of course there
we go
we also give them a border
border let's just keep them similar
three pixels solid black cool all right
so now
we have our sections
there are a height of 300 pixels the
width of 33 let's see what that looks
like before we float it
there we go we have our header at the
top we have our three sections that are
each 33 width
right
that's why they're like not taking up
the full space over here right because
they're 33 width and then our footer at
the bottom
okay
so
how can we get these to sit next to each
other
all right how can we get these to sit
next to each other
instead of stacking
yeah we can float them
oh
let's float them
okay
all right so we float them
and then let's go and refresh
oh boy
a bunch of stuff freaked out here a
bunch of stuff freaked out here
so we floated them
and we can see
we can see that at least two of them are
sitting next to each other
all right at least two of them are
this third one's not
all right
so at least at least
two of them are sitting next to each
other
um but this third one's not
and then something else weird happened
what happened to the to our footer
what happened to our
close enough send it
what happened to our footer
it slid up all right so here's what
happens
when you float stuff
right
here are our sections
and here was our footer footer's on the
bottom
when you float something you literally
float it off the page
right think of it if you literally
floating stuff off the page
and as soon as you float it zoop
it slides under so what happened is
those sections got floated and the
footer was like nothing's about me
and and
slid all the way up until it hit the
what
the floats floated like the sections
floated and then the footer was like
it went up until it hit the what until
it hit the header
exactly
so there's a couple ways that we can we
can handle this uh one we could just
like float the footer so that way
they're they're all floating together
that would work right
you could just float them all together
and then we'd be good
but there's also something else that we
could do
and the other thing that we could do
would be to
um
clear it
clear
let me show you what a clear looks like
so we can go down here and we can just
add up here and just add clear
i'm going to add both
what clear both means is it's kind of
like telling
both the header and the footer at the
moment but we only really care about the
footer it's kind of like telling the
footer to look hey look to the left
and look to the right
if there's anything floating come after
it right it just tells it to kind of
like ignore like well not everywhere but
like to see the stuff that's floating
and chill a little bit right so it looks
up
looks to the right looks to the left it
actually sees those floating sections
and the footer feels okay to stay where
it's at that's what clearing does it's
like it's telling the footer to
to look before it crosses the street and
it looks to the left it sees those
floating sections and it's like all
right i'm going to stay where i'm at so
when i save this what we'll notice is
that
the footer will do the right thing
right and now it's down here where it
should be right it's down here where it
should be
right down here where it should be
and uh we just have one last problem to
fix
all right we have one last problem to
all right
right
we have
three
sections
but only two of them
are sitting next to each other
you got to think about this for a second
i think about the second we we said that
each of these were
33.33 percent
that's enough that should be that should
be 100 that should be less than 100
right
but when it comes to the box model
when it comes to the box model
what
what's causing us to run out of some
room here
when it comes to the box model why are
we running out of room here
ah
because of the border
because of the border right so it's it's
it's 33.33
plus thirty three point three three
percent plus thirty three point three
three percent
plus
the three pixels here
three pixels here here three pixels here
three pixels here here
so all of those three pixel borders
take us
over that hundred percent
right it takes us over that hundred
percent and since we're over the hundred
percent
that last one right that last one
breaks to a new line
right it breaks to a new line because
we're over that 100 percent
so there's a couple things we could do
to fix
this we could sit here
and do all the math
right you'd be like oh if i do 32.8 or
whatever and like figure it out right
or
we could tell the browser
right we could tell the browser
ignore the border
just ignore it in terms of the box model
right just ignore it pretend it doesn't
exist
right and so the way we can do that is
by going back to our css
and at the top i'm going to do something
cool
i'm going to do asterisk
as my selector
and what the asterisk means is select
everything
right select everything
and then i'm going to do box sizing
border box
and all this will do in like a very kind
of simplified manner is just tell the
browser
to ignore
the borders
when you are calculating the width
right so now
if we go back
and we refresh
who
look at us go
right so now
we have our lovely header
our lovely footer and we have our three
sections
that are both 33
and have border all sitting nice and
neat next to each other we have a
beautiful
layout exactly beautiful beautiful
layout
cool
alrighty
let's
take a look at the code real quick just
to see it and recap
we had
our header our three sections and our
footer right
and then we had our
lovely asterisk selector selecting
everything right
everything on the page we select
everything and we say just ignore
borders when it comes to figuring out uh
sizing here and then we have our header
and footer
we had to add that clear so that the
footer wouldn't slide up
and then we have our sections so
this is how you can start to do layouts
right with floats
there's there's tweaks
there's things you got to figure out
right
right there's things you got to figure
out
there are some quirks you got to
remember the box sizing border box you
got to remember your clearing and when
we get to more advanced layouts we got
to remember our clear effects we're not
there yet though
so what we got to do
is put this into practice right put this
into practice and your homework that is
due not next tuesday but this thursday
so between now and thursday
i need you
to complete three more layouts
three more layouts
and get a jump on that reading don't
read the whole advance
just that one part of the advanced by
thursday so we can we can get more into
this right so i need you to complete
three more layouts and do that one like
chapter of reading and the three layouts
are not only in the start of materials
for today but the layouts are also in
the slides so here's one layout right
here's another
and here's a third
no flex
no grid
just floats
i'll do
this upcoming thursday you got this you
can do this
you're ready to rock and roll
i know this is a lot tonight there's a
lot to go over there's a lot to cover
give yourself a little bit of grace as
we move into this things are going to
start getting a little bit more spicy a
little bit more harder but you got this
you need help come on discord we will
help you all right let's end with the
raid we always end with the raids spread
some love and positivity to someone else
uh
make sure if you haven't already give
them a follow you give them a follow
and
we're going to go over to
uh rob
rob isn't just chatting right now
they are talking about beer the cure and
gnu linux rob is an amazing individual
have some of the coolest kind of like
more linuxy type
streams and so let's go ahead and give
them a raid
and i will see you all over there get
your channel points
have a wonderful rest of your tuesday
be well i'll see you on discord and i'll
see you all back here on thursday
everybody thank you for a great class
give your brains a little bit of a break
and let's raid
you